---
layout: post
title: "The sorry state of Videogame Journalism in Ireland"
date: 2013-11-27 00:57
comments: true
categories:
 - Videogames
 - Ireland
sidebar: false
description: >-
    "There's a huge problem with the websites in this country that have placed themselves
    in the position of responsibility for covering videogame news in Ireland; none of them
    sufficiently cover Irish Gaming News. And it begs the question: If none of them
    sufficiently cover any Irish Gaming news, what's the point in them at all?"
facebook:
    image: http://www.gravatar.com/avatar/e7e5cb5a71155eb1409a8d84d52726c1.jpg?s=250
    type: article
---

Spare me ten minutes or so while I rant at you about "Videogame Journalism" in Ireland and
its sorry state. It's something that has been bothering me for a time now and it's not
getting any better anytime soon.

<!--more-->

You see&hellip; Ireland and its gamers are amazing. We're great fun and are always up for
a bit of shenanigans no matter what. I have fond memories of playing Halo 3 online (has it
really been six years?!) only to run into some other Irish players, forming a party, and
roaming through matchmaking wreaking havok on unsuspecting Americans who would be
completely baffled by our unique humour.

Not only that, but we're a *very* talented island when it comes to videogames. And I'm not
talking about playing them. I'm talking about creating them. Back when many of you reading
this had to be back home when the street lights came on, Ireland was already on the map
creating games such as [Speed Freaks](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Speed_Freaks) on the
PlayStation. Many people don't know, but that game was designed and developed by Funcom's
(now-defunct) Dublin division. And that was only the tip of the iceberg.

Ireland is home to a plethora of very talented individuals and companies hell-bent on
making some beautiful and amazing games. **And they're not getting the coverage they
absolutely need and deserve from videogame journalists in this country.**

There's a huge problem with the websites in this country that have placed themselves in
the position of responsibility for covering videogame news in Ireland; none of them
sufficiently cover Irish Gaming News. And it begs the question: If none of them
sufficiently cover any Irish Gaming news, what's the point in them at all?

As it stands, I can list about six or seven Irish sites off the top of my head, and each
of them are clamouring to get to the top of the pile to be the "top dog" of Irish gaming
news, which leads to a very narrow-minded "me, me, me" approach when it comes to each of
them. Add to that the inherit God Complex that seems to befall people when given even a
modicum of power or exposure, and we get [situations like when ThePlayer.ie foolishly used
the word "Retarded" to describe something](http://i.imgur.com/9tndn9O.png).

But I think the worst thing about all of this is that out of all these sites, I can only
comfortably say that two or three of them cover any Irish news at all. And that's being
generous with my estimations. At best, they're all just rehashes of more popular sites
such as Polygon, or GameSpot but with less content. It's actually very rare that one of
these sites will cover any gaming news from smaller Irish developers. And the times they
do actually cover anything to do with them  are few and far between.

It's ridiculous, and it's entirely unacceptable for a group of sites whose goal is to
bring news to their Irish fanbase. Being an Irish gaming news website should be more than
just covering the global games market. The global market has already been covered and is
being milked dry by every single gaming site out there. Many of which have larger
followings and more sway in the Irish community than these Irish sites could ever achieve
at the moment.

These sites should instead be working together to promote healthy news about what's
happening in the Irish gaming scene, they should be helping Irish developers get their
games out there, and they should be helping Irish gamers make the most of the Irish
community.

There are, literally, hundreds of studios out there trying to make a great game and
failing miserably. Not because the product is bad, but because the exposure is bad. And
they're not getting it where it counts: at home.